All right. So we owe
crowdfunding to the Jobs Act.
Now, the jobs Act was a
bipartisan legislation
that developed in
2011 and was finally
signed into law by
President Obama in 2012,
it's rather remarkable fact,
is by itself by the way is
bipartisan legislation in
an election year but this was
a topic that was much on
the minds of people in Congress,
here we were coming out of
the Great Recession right.
The darkest moments I
suppose were 2009 into
2010 and the rate of
IPOs was very low,
it was almost
nonexistent for awhile
there and you may remember,
you remember those days,
remember Ben Bernanke
talking about
looking for "green shoots" right,
like new plants growing up
after there's been a forest fire
or something like that,
signs of new life,
the next generation of
entrepreneurship rising
out of the ashes.
So that was the context in
which Congress was thinking,
what can we do?
What can we do to bring
capital into startups?
Get entrepreneurship
going to jumpstart right,
so jobs were the stand for
jump-start our
business startups act,
that's how you get
jobs right, okay.
Jump Start Our
Business Startups Act.
So that was 2012 and if
you look at the jobs Act,
there were four titles,
it's really title three that
we really care about here,
when people talk
about crowdfunding,
they're talking about title
three which people often
just called Regulation
crowdfunding,
okay, but there's
three other titles too,
so let me just sketch what's
going on with all the
titles and then from
then onwards in this module we'll
focus largely on
title three, okay.
So these different titles
as you'll see are focusing
on somewhat different points on
the startup growth curve
and they are trying to
bring different benefits
to different companies,
address the concerns
that would be most
on your mind at
those different points,
okay, and also these titles
also took effect at
different times.
I said title three took
effect in mid-2016,
the other titles actually
kicked in a little
earlier than that.
Okay so, title one.
Title one, the phrase people
associate with title one is
emerging growth company,
emerging growth company
and the idea of title
one was you've got companies
that might want to
go public but maybe
something's holding them back.
Something's holding
them back from
going public and can
we identify what's
holding them back and maybe
relax a little bit on
the costs or the restrictions
that are keeping them from
tapping the capital markets.
Okay. So the idea was
emerging growth companies,
so the idea that
a company that is
making less than a billion
dollars in revenue,
not profit, revenue,
a billion dollars.
That such a company
would be called
an emerging growth company
and if they wanted to go public,
they could do it in
a less onerous way,
a way that might be
a little less costly
or intimidating to them
than and that's maybe
that's why they're
not doing it, okay.
So one of the big pieces
of it and this has
really caught on,
is confidential review process.
Okay. So the idea is,
so I mentioned that in
the previous section that
if I'm going to go public,
I submit this draft,
statement and then
the SEC reads it very
carefully and then they give
me all these bullets and I
have to respond to that,
and go back and forth
back and forth.
Well, if I'm an emerging
growth company,
I might still have to do all that
but it's all confidential, right,
so the public doesn't
see any of that,
it doesn't see any of that,
unless and until I
decide that let's do it,
let's go public right.
So as long as I could go
through that whole process
which takes months, all right,
it takes months and then at
the end of that process,
I can decide well,
okay, do I want to
do this or not?
Do I want to go public or not?
I might think well,
given the feedback I'm
getting from the SEC
or maybe just given
what's happened elsewhere in
the markets for
several months because
several months is
a long time right,
I'm thinking back to last year,
I'm like thinking back to 2018.
Well, mid 2018 was gangbusters
in the stock market,
lots of IPOs, everyone's
going to market.
Late 2018, you may
remember the market
just fell off a cliff,
everything stopped, it
was high volatility.
So you could have started
the process mid-2018 thinking
okay, this is great,
let's get going and then
you get to November,
so, wait a second,
you just stomp on
the brakes and not do it,
and if you did, the public
would never even
know that you
started the process.
It's all confidential right,
and so you don't have
these embarrassment essentially
of starting something
that you then stop,
and also you don't have to
disclose all that
confidential information,
think about Lyft right, well,
when Lyft, when people could
see the Lyft's financials,
they learned quite a lot
of things they
didn't already know, right.
Uber hasn't done that
right, we know about Lyft,
we don't know about Uber now,
right because Lyft
is going public.
So you can decide
not to go public,
you can in some sense fail
privately in this process,
and of course you can
always just pick it up
and do it some other time, okay.
So that has really
caught on as a way to go
public and by the way,
so originally this business
of confidential filing was
only for the emerging
growth companies.
That piece of title one
has now been expanded by
the Trump administration to
essentially all companies right.
So anybody can now do this,
anyone can do this
confidential first step.
There are also
other pieces to title one,
other cost and frictions
that people complain about
the IPO process, so yeah, well,
it's very cumbersome to
have audited financials
going way back,
well for title one,
you only need two years
and not three.
You don't have to
disclose as much
about your compensation.
You don't have to do what's
called "say on pay"
for a few years,
"say on pay" you may
know came out of
the Dodd-Frank bill,
"say on pay" is where
a company has to disclose,
here's what we're paying,
here's what we're
paying our top people.
They put it out there and then
the investors can
vote, yes or no,
I should say they vote
yes or no, that's just,
if you vote no, if
the investors ultimately
vote no they can
still pay that it's embarrassing
but they can still pay it.
So "say on pay" is more of
a poll of their investors,
it's embarrassing
to lose the poll
but it doesn't directly mean you
can't pay them but that's still
a big deal to some companies.
Some companies like
to do "say on pay",
they're perfectly happy
with their compensation
and they know that
the public will like it,
others of course not so.
Anyhow, so you're exempt
from "say on pay"
for a few years and there's
some other things like that.
One of the big things
people talk about,
this is going to sound tiny
but it ends up being huge,
coming out of WorldCom and Enron,
thinking back to
the Sarbanes-Oxley Bill
that came out of that,
that set of disasters right,
in the early 2001-2002,
coming out of that.
From that point onwards,
companies had to have
an auditor attest to
the strength of
your internal controls
over financial reporting, right.
Now, that might sound very
inside baseball right,
I mean having
an auditor attest to
the quality of
your internal controls
over financial reporting, well,
when you think about
Enron, WorldCom,
I mean just look
back, read those,
you can see well that
was the problem right.
So it's very difficult to
be confident that a company
has good controls.
It's very expensive to
do that and there are
companies that will
say that right there,
the expense of that auditing
of our internal
controls are so high,
that right there is
enough not to go public.
So companies are exempt
for a bit from that
but eventually,
yes you do have to do that.
You eventually you do have
to show the world that you
have controls over
your financial reporting, okay.
So that's title one,
title one is all about
making it easier to go IPO,
identifying some of the frictions
that keep people back from doing
that and trying to
ease them at least for
a bit, so they'll go public.
Title two of the Jobs Act
is not about making it
easier to go public but
it's more about making it
easier to stay private, okay.
So for title two,
what it's saying is that,
okay so there's a regulation
called Regulation D
and regulation D is one of the
go-to regulation for companies
that want to stay
private and want
to raise money privately
without going public, okay.
So historically they've
enjoyed this exemption
from having to go public
under regulation D,
which allows them to raise money.
So they can do that. They can
raise money from friends,
they can raise money
from friends of friends,
they can raise money from people
that they'd been referred to.
But what they can't do,
is bring in money by advertising,
or what the SCC calls
general solicitation.
You couldn't do that.
You couldn't just put an ad
in the paper say call
this number if you're interested
in investing in our company.
You couldn't advertise.
So that is the big
developed with title II
is that I can bring
in money from outside investors
that I bring in simply
by advertising.
Now these days you do
that on the Internet.
So you can do that,
but there's a catch.
So basically, this
is crowdfunding.
Titled II is a flavor
of crowdfunding.
I'm putting myself out
there on the Internet,
I'm describing a company,
I'm telling you how you can
invest and you can invest,
sounds like crowdfunding,
but there's a twist here
which is that it's
only for rich people.
When I say rich people,
what I mean is,
to be an investor in a
Title II crowdfunding,
you have to have
either number one,
$1 million not counting
your house, you have
to have $1 million,
or if you don't
have a $1 million,
you have to have made at least
$200,000 for the last two years.
So if you've satisfy those rules,
those about wealth
income requirements,
then the SCC would call
you an accredited investor
and now you can invest
in that startup.
By the way, the burden
of proof essentially that
you are accredited investor
is on the company,
so I can't just say,
"By the way, are you rich?"
"Yeah, I'm rich."
So, "Okay, great.
Well then you can
buy my securities."
No. I have to have
a process in place to
verify that you really
have that kind of money.
So what you see now is there're
some internet portals that
facilitate crowdfunding,
but if you look closely,
you'll see they're only doing
Title II crowdfunding where
in order to invest
through that portal,
you have to go through
a process that they
oversee where you
verify tax returns,
you verify that you
have the income or
wealth to be
an accredited investor.
Once they've taken
care of that piece,
then the startups can go to
that website and they know
that well the website has
done that vetting for
them and now they
can raise money from
those investors legally
while staying private.
So Title II is a flavor
of crowdfunding,
but just remember, Title II
is crowdfunding for rich people.
That brings this Title III,
which is just crowdfunding
for everybody.
So Title III says that I can
raise money from anybody.
But now, relative to title II,
there are some restrictions that
we're going to have
to live under.
So yes, I could raise
money from anybody,
but people are
going to be limited
in how much they can invest
and that limit's going to be
a function of
their wealth or income.
Also, I'm going to be limited
in how much money I can raise.
So to think about Title III,
bear in mind that
the regulators care about,
all investors, but
they particularly care
about investors of limited means.
That's what this whole accredited
investor thing is all about.
Well, if you're wealthy enough,
you make enough money,
there's two things.
Number one, maybe you're
more astute investor,
for us maybe not.
But also, you've
got money to lose
and we're not as concerned
there as we are for the
investors of more limited means,
they're the ones that we
want to be careful about not
getting ripped off or at least
not investing to an extent,
not losing a very damaging amount
of money in this market.
So the restrictions from
the entrepreneur side,
I can raise over
any 12-month period up to
$1 million. That's
it, $1 million.
I can raise $1 million and
when I go to this market,
I don't have anything like
the stringent auditing expenses
and regulated review that
we saw with the
traditional IPO process.
So if I got this market,
if I'm raising only
up to a $100,000,
then all I need is
a company official to sign
off on the documents.
A company official
like I could just sign
off that just my
disclosures being accurate.
If I want to go up
to a half million,
now I need to have
my information reviewed
by a public accountant.
Now, review is
a term of art here.
Review and audit are
two different things.
A review is less costly
far fewer professional hours
than an audit.
So I'd have to have it reviewed
by a public accountant,
but I don't have
to have an audit.
Once I'm over half million bucks,
then if this is my first time,
then I still just
have it reviewed,
but if it's my second time
going to the crowdfunding market,
now I'm going to have
to pay for an audit.
So as you can see,
we're trying to because we're not
raising much money here,
we're only raising up to
a million bucks and so you
have to be careful
about how expensive
you're going to make it
to go to this market,
and so that's the idea
here that we're not
making the entrepreneur spend
a tremendous amount
of professional hours
if they're not raising
that much money.
So that is the entrepreneur side.
On the investor side,
they said they are going
to be limited in how
much they can invest
depending on
their wealth and income.
So basically, what it
boils down to is that
if you make up to
a 100,000 bucks,
then you are limited
to the greater of
2,000 bucks a year that you can
invest or five percent
of your income.
So that's the idea.
So if I'm making just
almost a 100,000 bucks and
I can invest almost 5,000 bucks.
All put together, all
Title III crowdfunding
investment all put together,
once I'm over 100,000,
now it is 10 percent
of my income,
up to 100,000 bucks.
So even there, I'm limited.
The idea as you can see,
yes I might lose
all my money that I invest
in crowdfunding but
I'm not going to lose more
than 10 percent of my income.
Also I should add that when
you invest in this market
as an investor,
you are actually limited
in your ability to sell.
So over the next year,
I can't sell my
whenever I bought in
crowdfunding to anybody else.
So this could be
no liquidity for a year.
So there's one more title
that I mentioned of
the jobs act which is Title IV.
Title IV is what people
often refer to as Reg A+.
Reg A+ because there has
been a Reg A for many years.
Reg A+ is just a bit
of a twist on it.
Reg A+ really isn't what anyone
would call crowdfunding.
Reg A+ is a way
that a company can
do essentially an IPO but
just on a smaller scale.
If you are doing an IPO,
but there's somewhat lighter
disclosure requirements,
some other lighter
requirements and you're
doing at a smaller size.
So it's a way to allow
a company to do an IPO maybe in
a slightly earlier moment
than they otherwise would
and at a smaller size.
So this really hasn't
taken off so much
the way that the regulators
hoped it would as well.
There's only been
a few of these and
the performance hasn't
really been that great.
As I say it's not really,
I wouldn't call it crowdfunding,
it really got more of
the flavor of a typical IPO.
Maybe the one piece
that's like crowdfunding
is that these are done on what
we call a best
efforts basis which
is not the usual way
an IPO is done.
Usually, if I take
my company IPO,
I hire an underwriter and
ultimately what happens
is the underwriter
buys the shares from
the issuer and then places
those shares with the public.
A best efforts IPO is
where the underwriter
doesn't do any of that.
They just provide a conduit
for the retail public
or anyone or
institutional investors
whoever it is to buy shares of
the IPO and then at
the end of that process,
the issuer has sold
whatever shares people
showed up to buy.
So that's a best efforts IPO.
You tend not to see those
for the major companies,
you see this for the
relatively smaller,
sketchy, maybe you
call them companies,
would do a best efforts IPO.
So in this Title IV Reg+ base,
that's also what
you're going to see.
So the retail investor does have
better access to these IPOs
than the typical IPO.
They show up and buy shares,
they can probably do it.
So maybe that's got some of
the little flavor of crowdfunding
but for the most part now
this is just a regular IPO.
It hasn't really
taken off either.
But I just thought I'd mention it
because it's the last piece
of the jobs Act.
Going forward, my focus
here is going to be
on the Title III
crowdfunding. So that's it.
That's the job Act 1, 2, 3,
and 4 and that's what's given us
this new world of companies
you going directly to
the retail markets to fund
their defender startups.